docs/PROJECT_STATUS.md, before:

# Telegram Payment Gateway - Project Status & Completion Plan

**Last Updated**: November 21, 2025  
**Status**: MVP Complete - Production Ready with TODOs  
**Version**: 2.1.0 (P2P Engine, Webhooks, Settlement, DEX Integration Complete)

---

## 🎯 Project Overview

A decentralized payment gateway for converting Telegram Stars → TON → Fiat using P2P liquidity pools (DeDust, Ston.fi) without centralized exchanges.

**Tech Stack**: TypeScript, Node.js 20, Express 4, PostgreSQL 16, TON Blockchain, React 18

**Recent Updates** (November 21, 2025):
- ✅ **P2P Engine Live** - Atomic swaps and order matching implemented
- ✅ **Background Workers** - Webhook dispatcher and settlement processor active
- ✅ **DEX Integration** - Real on-chain swaps with DeDust and Ston.fi
- ✅ **Security Incident Resolved** - All exposed credentials rotated, Git history cleaned

---

## ✅ Completed Work (98% Complete)

### Phase 1: Core Infrastructure ✅

### Phase 2: Payment Processing ✅

### Phase 3: TON Blockchain Integration ✅

### Phase 4: Fragment Removal & P2P/DEX ✅

### Phase 5: API Layer ✅

### Phase 6: Dashboard ✅

### Phase 7: Background Workers ✅

- ✅ **Fee Collection Worker** — Automated TON sweeps via `npm run worker:fees`
- ✅ **Revenue Analytics Service** — `/admin/stats`, `/admin/revenue/summary`, `/admin/transactions/summary`
- ✅ **Webhook Dispatcher** — Retry queue via `npm run worker:webhooks`
- ✅ **Settlement Processor** — Automated fiat/crypto settlements via `npm run worker:monitor`

### Phase 8: DEX Smart Contract Integration ✅

**Status**: **COMPLETE**

**Implementation**:
- `DexAggregatorService` implements `executeSwap` with real TON transfers for DeDust and Ston.fi.
- `DeDustPool` and `StonfiRouter` contract wrappers implemented.
- Swap execution logic handles slippage, gas estimation, and transaction monitoring.
- Simulation mode preserved for testing (`DEX_SIMULATION_MODE=true`).

### Phase 9: P2P Order Matching Engine ✅

**Status**: **COMPLETE**

**Implementation**:
- `StarsP2PService` implements `executeAtomicSwap` with real TON transfers.
- `P2PLiquidityService` routes conversions through P2P engine.
- Atomic swaps verified with test script (`scripts/test-atomic-swap.ts`).
- Database schema updated (`stars_orders`, `atomic_swaps`, `wallets`).

---

## 🔴 Critical TODOs (Production Blockers)

### 1. Blockchain Transaction Polling

**Priority**: MEDIUM | **Effort**: 1 day

**Files to Update**:

- `packages/core/src/services/conversion.service.ts` (line 326)

**Tasks**:

```typescript
async pollConversionStatus(conversionId: string, txHash: string) {
  const maxPolls = 60; // 5 minutes (5s intervals)
  let polls = 0;
  
  while (polls < maxPolls) {
    const tx = await this.tonService.getTransaction(txHash);
    
    if (tx.confirmed && tx.confirmations >= 10) {
      await this.updateConversionStatus(conversionId, 'completed');
      return;
    }
    
    if (tx.failed) {
      await this.updateConversionStatus(conversionId, 'failed');
      throw new Error('Transaction failed on blockchain');
    }
    
    await this.delay(5000);
    polls++;
  }
  
  throw new Error('Transaction polling timeout');
}
```

---

## 🟡 Important TODOs (Non-blocking)

### 6. Redis Caching

**Priority**: LOW | **Effort**: 1 day

**Files to Update**:

- `packages/core/src/services/rate.aggregator.ts` (line 282)

**Current**: In-memory Map cache  
**Target**: Redis for production scalability

---

### 7. Database Integration in TelegramService

**Priority**: LOW | **Effort**: 1 day

**Files to Update**:

- `packages/core/src/services/Telegram.service.ts` (lines 117, 130, 150)

**Tasks**: Replace console.log with actual PaymentModel.create() calls

---

### 8. Reconciliation Service Completion

**Priority**: LOW | **Effort**: 1 day

**Files to Update**:

- `packages/core/src/services/reconciliation.service.ts` (line 82)

**Tasks**: Remove Fragment API references, add TON blockchain verification

---

## 📋 Feature Enhancements (Post-MVP)

### Dashboard Phase 4-6

- [ ] P2P Orders page
- [ ] DEX Analytics page
- [ ] Webhooks event log page
- [ ] Pagination for large lists
- [ ] Date range pickers
- [ ] Export to CSV/PDF
- [ ] Real-time WebSocket updates
- [ ] Dark mode toggle
- [ ] Mobile responsive improvements

### API Enhancements

- [ ] GraphQL endpoint (optional)
- [ ] Bulk operations API
- [ ] Webhook event filtering
- [ ] API versioning (v2)
- [ ] Rate limit tiers

### Monitoring & Analytics

- [ ] Prometheus metrics
- [ ] Grafana dashboards
- [ ] Error tracking (Sentry)
- [ ] Performance monitoring (APM)
- [ ] Audit log viewer

### Security Enhancements

- [ ] API key rotation policy
- [ ] IP whitelisting
- [ ] 2FA for dashboard
- [ ] Webhook signature verification
- [ ] DDoS protection

---

## 🚀 Deployment Checklist

### Pre-Production

- [ ] Complete critical TODOs (#1)
- [ ] Security audit
- [ ] Load testing (JMeter/k6)
- [ ] Documentation review
- [ ] API documentation (Swagger/OpenAPI)
- [ ] Environment variable validation
- [ ] Database backup strategy
- [ ] Monitoring setup

### Production Setup

- [ ] Domain & SSL certificates
- [ ] Cloud provider setup (AWS/GCP/Azure)
- [ ] Database (Managed PostgreSQL)
- [ ] Redis (Managed)
- [ ] Load balancer configuration
- [ ] Auto-scaling rules
- [ ] CI/CD pipeline
- [ ] Staging environment

### Launch

- [ ] Deploy API
- [ ] Deploy Dashboard
- [ ] Deploy Workers
- [ ] DNS configuration
- [ ] Smoke tests
- [ ] Monitoring alerts
- [ ] Documentation site
- [ ] Developer portal

---

## 📊 Project Metrics

### Codebase

- **Total Lines**: ~16,000
- **TypeScript**: 95%
- **Test Coverage**: 65% (target: 80%)
- **Packages**: 5 (core, api, sdk, dashboard, worker)
- **Dependencies**: Secure (no critical vulnerabilities)

### Database

- **Tables**: 20
- **Migrations**: 12
- **Indexes**: 52
- **Constraints**: 25

### API

- **Endpoints**: 28
- **Controllers**: 6
- **Middleware**: 5
- **Services**: 16

### Performance Targets

- **API Response**: <200ms (p95)
- **Dashboard Load**: <2s
- **Transaction Processing**: <30s
- **Webhook Delivery**: <5s (95% success rate)

---

## 🎯 Immediate Next Steps (Priority Order)

1. **Week 5**: Blockchain polling & testing (#1)
   - Complete transaction polling
   - End-to-end testing
   - Load testing
   - Bug fixes

2. **Week 6**: Production preparation
   - Security audit
   - Documentation finalization
   - Deployment setup
   - Monitoring configuration

3. **Week 7**: Launch
   - Deploy to production
   - Monitor metrics
   - Fix issues
   - User onboarding

---

## 📚 Documentation Status

### Complete ✅

- [x] README.md (comprehensive overview)
- [x] ARCHITECTURE.md (system design)
- [x] API.md (endpoint documentation)
- [x] INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md (developer guide)
- [x] DASHBOARD_COMPLETION_PLAN.md (dashboard roadmap)
- [x] DEVELOPMENT.md (setup guide)

### Needs Update 🟡

- [ ] FRAGMENT_REMOVAL_PLAN.md (archive or remove)
- [ ] FRAGMENT_REMOVAL_QUICK_REF.md (archive or remove)
- [x] API.md (add new DEX/P2P endpoints)
- [x] INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md (update with P2P examples)

### To Create 📝

- [ ] DEPLOYMENT.md (production deployment guide)
- [ ] TESTING.md (testing strategy & guide)
- [ ] SECURITY.md (security best practices)
- [ ] CONTRIBUTING.md (contribution guidelines)
- [ ] CHANGELOG.md (version history)

---

## 💡 Recommendations

### Technical Debt

1. **Convert remaining Pool to Database types** - Standardize database client across all services
2. **Add comprehensive test suite** - Target 80% coverage before production
3. **Refactor error codes** - Centralize error code definitions
4. **Optimize database queries** - Add query performance monitoring

### Infrastructure

1. **Set up staging environment** - Mirror production for testing
2. **Implement blue-green deployment** - Zero-downtime updates
3. **Add database replication** - Read replicas for scalability
4. **Configure CDN** - Serve dashboard assets faster

### Developer Experience

1. **Create SDK examples** - More code samples for integration
2. **Build CLI tool** - Command-line interface for testing
3. **Interactive API docs** - Swagger UI or Postman collection
4. **Video tutorials** - Walkthrough for developers

---

## 📞 Support & Maintenance

### Monitoring

- API health checks every 60s
- Database connection pool monitoring
- Worker queue depth tracking
- Error rate alerting (>1% threshold)

### Backup Strategy

- Database: Daily full backup, hourly incremental
- Configuration: Version controlled
- Logs: 30-day retention
- Disaster recovery: 4-hour RTO, 1-hour RPO

### Maintenance Windows

- Deployments: Tuesday/Thursday 2-4 AM UTC
- Database updates: Monthly, scheduled
- Security patches: As needed (emergency)

---

## ✅ Summary

**Current State**: Production-ready MVP with 98% completion. Dashboard fully functional, Fragment removed, P2P/DEX integrated with real on-chain swaps, database stable, API working.

**Major Update (Nov 21, 2025)**: ✅ P2P Engine, Webhooks, Settlement, and DEX Integration ALL COMPLETE.

**Blockers**: 1 critical TODO (polling)

**Timeline**: 5-6 weeks to full production launch

**Recommendation**: Focus on completing critical TODO (#1) before launch, then iterate on enhancements.

---

*This document is the single source of truth for project status and roadmap. Update regularly as work progresses.*

Commit message:

docs: Update project status, API reference, and development guide

docs/PROJECT_STATUS.md, after:

# Telegram Payment Gateway - Project Status & Completion Plan

**Last Updated**: November 21, 2025  
**Status**: MVP Complete - Production Ready with TODOs  
**Version**: 2.1.0 (P2P Engine, Webhooks, Settlement, DEX Integration Complete)

---

## 🎯 Project Overview

A decentralized payment gateway for converting Telegram Stars → TON → Fiat using P2P liquidity pools (DeDust, Ston.fi) without centralized exchanges.

**Tech Stack**: TypeScript, Node.js 20, Express 4, PostgreSQL 16, TON Blockchain, React 18

**Recent Updates** (November 21, 2025):
- ✅ **Testing Infrastructure** - Added comprehensive test setup with database cleanup and environment configuration
- ✅ **Webhook Support** - Added TON transaction webhook endpoint and controller
- ✅ **Service Refactoring** - Centralized TON blockchain interactions in `TonBlockchainService`
- ✅ **P2P Engine Live** - Atomic swaps and order matching implemented
- ✅ **Background Workers** - Webhook dispatcher and settlement processor active
- ✅ **DEX Integration** - Real on-chain swaps with DeDust and Ston.fi
- ✅ **Security Incident Resolved** - All exposed credentials rotated, Git history cleaned

---

## ✅ Completed Work (98% Complete)

### Phase 1: Core Infrastructure ✅

### Phase 2: Payment Processing ✅

### Phase 3: TON Blockchain Integration ✅

### Phase 4: Fragment Removal & P2P/DEX ✅

### Phase 5: API Layer ✅

- ✅ **REST API** - Express server with authentication, rate limiting, and error handling
- ✅ **Webhook System** - Telegram payment notifications and TON transaction monitoring
- ✅ **Documentation** - Comprehensive API reference and integration guide

### Phase 6: Dashboard ✅

### Phase 7: Background Workers ✅

- ✅ **Fee Collection Worker** — Automated TON sweeps via `npm run worker:fees`
- ✅ **Revenue Analytics Service** — `/admin/stats`, `/admin/revenue/summary`, `/admin/transactions/summary`
- ✅ **Webhook Dispatcher** — Retry queue via `npm run worker:webhooks`
- ✅ **Settlement Processor** — Automated fiat/crypto settlements via `npm run worker:monitor`

### Phase 8: DEX Smart Contract Integration ✅

**Status**: **COMPLETE**

**Implementation**:
- `DexAggregatorService` implements `executeSwap` with real TON transfers for DeDust and Ston.fi.
- `DeDustPool` and `StonfiRouter` contract wrappers implemented.
- Swap execution logic handles slippage, gas estimation, and transaction monitoring.
- Simulation mode preserved for testing (`DEX_SIMULATION_MODE=true`).

### Phase 9: P2P Order Matching Engine ✅

**Status**: **COMPLETE**

**Implementation**:
- `StarsP2PService` implements `executeAtomicSwap` with real TON transfers.
- `P2PLiquidityService` routes conversions through P2P engine.
- Atomic swaps verified with test script (`scripts/test-atomic-swap.ts`).
- Database schema updated (`stars_orders`, `atomic_swaps`, `wallets`).

---

## 🔴 Critical TODOs (Production Blockers)

### 1. Blockchain Transaction Polling

**Priority**: MEDIUM | **Effort**: 1 day

**Files to Update**:

- `packages/core/src/services/conversion.service.ts` (line 326)

**Tasks**:

```typescript
async pollConversionStatus(conversionId: string, txHash: string) {
  const maxPolls = 60; // 5 minutes (5s intervals)
  let polls = 0;
  
  while (polls < maxPolls) {
    const tx = await this.tonService.getTransaction(txHash);
    
    if (tx.confirmed && tx.confirmations >= 10) {
      await this.updateConversionStatus(conversionId, 'completed');
      return;
    }
    
    if (tx.failed) {
      await this.updateConversionStatus(conversionId, 'failed');
      throw new Error('Transaction failed on blockchain');
    }
    
    await this.delay(5000);
    polls++;
  }
  
  throw new Error('Transaction polling timeout');
}
```

---

## 🟡 Important TODOs (Non-blocking)

### 6. Redis Caching

**Priority**: LOW | **Effort**: 1 day

**Files to Update**:

- `packages/core/src/services/rate.aggregator.ts` (line 282)

**Current**: In-memory Map cache  
**Target**: Redis for production scalability

---

### 7. Database Integration in TelegramService

**Priority**: LOW | **Effort**: 1 day

**Files to Update**:

- `packages/core/src/services/Telegram.service.ts` (lines 117, 130, 150)

**Tasks**: Replace console.log with actual PaymentModel.create() calls

---

### 8. Reconciliation Service Completion

**Priority**: LOW | **Effort**: 1 day

**Files to Update**:

- `packages/core/src/services/reconciliation.service.ts` (line 82)

**Tasks**: Remove Fragment API references, add TON blockchain verification

---

## 📋 Feature Enhancements (Post-MVP)

### Dashboard Phase 4-6

- [ ] P2P Orders page
- [ ] DEX Analytics page
- [ ] Webhooks event log page
- [ ] Pagination for large lists
- [ ] Date range pickers
- [ ] Export to CSV/PDF
- [ ] Real-time WebSocket updates
- [ ] Dark mode toggle
- [ ] Mobile responsive improvements

### API Enhancements

- [ ] GraphQL endpoint (optional)
- [ ] Bulk operations API
- [ ] Webhook event filtering
- [ ] API versioning (v2)
- [ ] Rate limit tiers

### Monitoring & Analytics

- [ ] Prometheus metrics
- [ ] Grafana dashboards
- [ ] Error tracking (Sentry)
- [ ] Performance monitoring (APM)
- [ ] Audit log viewer

### Security Enhancements

- [ ] API key rotation policy
- [ ] IP whitelisting
- [ ] 2FA for dashboard
- [ ] Webhook signature verification
- [ ] DDoS protection

---

## 🚀 Deployment Checklist

### Pre-Production

- [ ] Complete critical TODOs (#1)
- [ ] Security audit
- [ ] Load testing (JMeter/k6)
- [ ] Documentation review
- [ ] API documentation (Swagger/OpenAPI)
- [ ] Environment variable validation
- [ ] Database backup strategy
- [ ] Monitoring setup

### Production Setup

- [ ] Domain & SSL certificates
- [ ] Cloud provider setup (AWS/GCP/Azure)
- [ ] Database (Managed PostgreSQL)
- [ ] Redis (Managed)
- [ ] Load balancer configuration
- [ ] Auto-scaling rules
- [ ] CI/CD pipeline
- [ ] Staging environment

### Launch

- [ ] Deploy API
- [ ] Deploy Dashboard
- [ ] Deploy Workers
- [ ] DNS configuration
- [ ] Smoke tests
- [ ] Monitoring alerts
- [ ] Documentation site
- [ ] Developer portal

---

## 📊 Project Metrics

### Codebase

- **Total Lines**: ~16,000
- **TypeScript**: 95%
- **Test Coverage**: 65% (target: 80%)
- **Packages**: 5 (core, api, sdk, dashboard, worker)
- **Dependencies**: Secure (no critical vulnerabilities)

### Database

- **Tables**: 20
- **Migrations**: 12
- **Indexes**: 52
- **Constraints**: 25

### API

- **Endpoints**: 28
- **Controllers**: 6
- **Middleware**: 5
- **Services**: 16

### Performance Targets

- **API Response**: <200ms (p95)
- **Dashboard Load**: <2s
- **Transaction Processing**: <30s
- **Webhook Delivery**: <5s (95% success rate)

---

## 🎯 Immediate Next Steps (Priority Order)

1. **Week 5**: Blockchain polling & testing (#1)
   - Complete transaction polling
   - End-to-end testing
   - Load testing
   - Bug fixes

2. **Week 6**: Production preparation
   - Security audit
   - Documentation finalization
   - Deployment setup
   - Monitoring configuration

3. **Week 7**: Launch
   - Deploy to production
   - Monitor metrics
   - Fix issues
   - User onboarding

---

## 📚 Documentation Status

### Complete ✅

- [x] README.md (comprehensive overview)
- [x] ARCHITECTURE.md (system design)
- [x] API.md (endpoint documentation)
- [x] INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md (developer guide)
- [x] DASHBOARD_COMPLETION_PLAN.md (dashboard roadmap)
- [x] DEVELOPMENT.md (setup guide)

### Needs Update 🟡

- [ ] FRAGMENT_REMOVAL_PLAN.md (archive or remove)
- [ ] FRAGMENT_REMOVAL_QUICK_REF.md (archive or remove)
- [x] API.md (add new DEX/P2P endpoints)
- [x] INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md (update with P2P examples)

### To Create 📝

- [ ] DEPLOYMENT.md (production deployment guide)
- [ ] TESTING.md (testing strategy & guide)
- [ ] SECURITY.md (security best practices)
- [ ] CONTRIBUTING.md (contribution guidelines)
- [ ] CHANGELOG.md (version history)

---

## 💡 Recommendations

### Technical Debt

1. **Convert remaining Pool to Database types** - Standardize database client across all services
2. **Add comprehensive test suite** - Target 80% coverage before production
3. **Refactor error codes** - Centralize error code definitions
4. **Optimize database queries** - Add query performance monitoring

### Infrastructure

1. **Set up staging environment** - Mirror production for testing
2. **Implement blue-green deployment** - Zero-downtime updates
3. **Add database replication** - Read replicas for scalability
4. **Configure CDN** - Serve dashboard assets faster

### Developer Experience

1. **Create SDK examples** - More code samples for integration
2. **Build CLI tool** - Command-line interface for testing
3. **Interactive API docs** - Swagger UI or Postman collection
4. **Video tutorials** - Walkthrough for developers

---

## 📞 Support & Maintenance

### Monitoring

- API health checks every 60s
- Database connection pool monitoring
- Worker queue depth tracking
- Error rate alerting (>1% threshold)

### Backup Strategy

- Database: Daily full backup, hourly incremental
- Configuration: Version controlled
- Logs: 30-day retention
- Disaster recovery: 4-hour RTO, 1-hour RPO

### Maintenance Windows

- Deployments: Tuesday/Thursday 2-4 AM UTC
- Database updates: Monthly, scheduled
- Security patches: As needed (emergency)

---

## ✅ Summary

**Current State**: Production-ready MVP with 98% completion. Dashboard fully functional, Fragment removed, P2P/DEX integrated with real on-chain swaps, database stable, API working.

**Major Update (Nov 21, 2025)**: ✅ P2P Engine, Webhooks, Settlement, and DEX Integration ALL COMPLETE.

**Blockers**: 1 critical TODO (polling)

**Timeline**: 5-6 weeks to full production launch

**Recommendation**: Focus on completing critical TODO (#1) before launch, then iterate on enhancements.

---

*This document is the single source of truth for project status and roadmap. Update regularly as work progresses.*
